39 create an amortized cost metric (#122)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/metrics/amortizedcost.md

# Amortized Cost

> Amortized cost represents the sum of the amortization of upfront fees, the amortization of recurring fees, and the discounted variable rate of the line item. This column is often used to show spending trends that include on demand rates, effective commitment-based discount rates, recurring commitments, as well as amortization of upfront fees. The fee and upfront amortization portion of this column’s value should be proportional to the number of units for the line item and the time granularity of the data. The currency for the value specified in Billed Cost can be found in the [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency) column.

Reviewer: In the definition we list various elements that are included in the amortized cost. I'm not sure if that's implied or if we should also mention the basic, billed cost...

> Amortized cost represents the sum of the amortization of upfront fees, the amortization of recurring fees, and the remaining usage cost of the line item. This column is often used to show spending trends that include on demand rates, effective commitment-based discount rates, recurring commitments, as well as amortization of upfront fees. The fee and upfront amortization portion of this column’s value should be proportional to the number of units for the line item and the time granularity of the data. The currency for the value specified in Billed Cost can be found in the [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency) column. The aggregated Amortized Cost for a billing period MAY NOT match the charge received on the invoice for the same billing period.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Amortized cost represents the sum of the amortized upfront fees, amortized recurring fees, and the usage cost of the line item. This column is often used to show spending trends that include on demand rates, effective commitment-based discount rates, recurring commitments, as well as amortization of upfront fees. The fee and upfront amortization portion of this column’s value should be proportional to the number of units for the line item and the time granularity of the data. The currency for the value specified in Amortized Cost can be found in the [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency) column. The aggregated Amortized Cost for a billing period may not match the charge received on the invoice for the same billing period.
```

> Practitioners are faced with two main challenges in respect to this metric:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Practitioners are faced with two main challenges with respect to this metric:
```

1. Practitioners need to amortize upfront fees over the duration of the commitment and distribute those fees to the appropriate reporting groups (e.g. tags, resources).
2. Many commitment based discount constructs include a recurring expense for the commitment for every billing period and must distribute this cost to the resources using the commitment. This forces reconciliation between the initial commitment line item per period and the actual usage line items.

The AmortizedCost column MUST be present in the billing data. This column MUST be a numeric value of type Decimal and MUST NOT contain null values. 

## Column ID

AmortizedCost

## Display name

Amortized Cost

## Description

> The cost inclusive of amortized upfront charges, recurring fees, and remaining usage cost of the line item.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The cost inclusive of amortized of upfront fees, amortized recurring fees, and the usage cost of the line item.
```

Reviewer 3: I think you have an extra "of"...
```suggestion
The cost inclusive of amortized upfront fees, amortized recurring fees, and the usage cost of the line item.
```

### Concerning Granularity and Distribution of Recurring Fee

> While some providers may include a line item at the beginning of each applicable period for the amount of the commitment, Amortized Cost should include that cost distributed such that there is not a need to distribute this fee. Thus the practitioner is not required to distribute this commitment, but rather the provider must distribute these fees over the line items for the usage of this commitment. See examples section for further clarity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some providers may include a line item at the beginning of a period for the applicable amount of a purchased commitment. Providers should distribute that cost within the Amortized Cost metric such that there is not a need to for users to distribute this fee. 
```

Reviewer 3: Should we be more direct?
```suggestion
Providers should distribute the commitment purchase amount instead of including a line item at the beginning of a period so practitioners do not need to manually distribute the fee themselves.
```

### Concerning Amortization Approaches

> The amortization of the upfront charge should be amortized using a methodology determined by the provider that reflects the needs of their customer base and is proportional with usage quantity and the time granularity of the line item.  Should a practitioner desire to amortize upfront fees using a different approach, the practioner can do so using the BilledCost for the line item representing the initial purchase.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The amortization of the upfront charge should be amortized using a methodology determined by the provider that reflects the needs of their customer base and is proportional with usage quantity and the time granularity of the line item.  Should a practitioner desire to amortize upfront fees using a different approach, the practitioner can do so using the Billed Cost for the line item representing the initial purchase.
```

> 
> 
> ## Content constraints

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

## Content constraints
```

# Amortized Cost

> Amortized cost represents the amortization of upfront fees, the amortization of recurring fees, and the discounted variable rate of the line item. This column is often used to show spending trends that include on demand rates, reservation rates, recurring commitments, as well as amortization of upfront fees. The Fee and Upfront amortization portion of this column’s value should be proportional to the number of units for the line item and the time granularity of the data.  The currency for the value specified in Billed Cost can be found in the [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency) column.

Author: Fixed with [Generalizing Verbiage](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/122/commits/3028fba742c234927236e1896473eb0c4582fa99)

> Amortized cost represents the sum of the amortization of upfront fees, the amortization of recurring fees, and the discounted variable rate of the line item. This column is often used to show spending trends that include on demand rates, reservation rates, recurring commitments, as well as amortization of upfront fees. The Fee and Upfront amortization portion of this column’s value should be proportional to the number of units for the line item and the time granularity of the data.  The currency for the value specified in Billed Cost can be found in the [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency) column.

Reviewer 4: Removing extra space
```suggestion
Amortized cost represents the sum of the amortization of upfront fees, the amortization of recurring fees, and the discounted variable rate of the line item. This column is often used to show spending trends that include on demand rates, reservation rates, recurring commitments, as well as amortization of upfront fees. The Fee and Upfront amortization portion of this column’s value should be proportional to the number of units for the line item and the time granularity of the data. The currency for the value specified in Billed Cost can be found in the [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency) column.
```

The AmortizedCost column MUST be present in the billing data. This column MUST be a numeric value of type Decimal and MUST NOT contain null values. The aggregated Amortized Cost for a billing period WILL NOT match the charge received on the invoice for the same billing period.

> 

Reviewer 2: Move after practitioner challenges

Author: Moved

Practitioners are faced with two main challenges in respect to this metric:

> 1. Practitioners need to amortized upfront fees over the duration of the commitment and distribute those funds to the appropriate reporting groups (e.g. tags, resources)

Author: Fixing with [Generalizing Verbiage](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/122/commits/3028fba742c234927236e1896473eb0c4582fa99)

> 1. Practitioners need to amortized upfront fees over the duration of the commitment and distribute those funds to the appropriate reporting groups (e.g. tags, resources)

Reviewer 4: Changed tense of verb to match sentence
Changed funds to fees to match earlier term
```suggestion
1. Practitioners need to amortize upfront fees over the duration of the commitment and distribute those fees to the appropriate reporting groups (e.g. tags, resources)
```

2. Many reservation-like functions include a recurring expense for the commitment for every billing period and must distribute this cost to the resources using the commitment. Thus forcing reconciliation between the initial commitment line item per period and the actual usage line items.

> 
> 
> ## Column ID

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

## Column ID
```

AmortizedCost

## Display name

Amortized Cost

## Description

The cost inclusive of amortized upfront charges, recurring fees, and negotiated discount rates for the line item.

### Concerning Granularity and Distribution of Recurring Fee

> While it is common in committed discount scenarios to have a line item present at the beginning of each applicable period for the amount of the commitment. Amortized cost should include that cost distributed such that there is not a need to distribute this fee. Thus the practitioner is not required to distribute this commitment, following that particular constructs logic, but rather the provider must distribute these fees over the line items for the usage of this commitment. See examples section for further clarity.

Author: Love it.

> While it is common in committed discount scenarios to have a line item present at the beginning of each applicable period for the amount of the commitment. Amortized cost should include that cost distributed such that there is not a need to distribute this fee. Thus the practitioner is not required to distribute this commitment, following that particular constructs logic, but rather the provider must distribute these fees over the line items for the usage of this commitment. See examples section for further clarity.

Reviewer 2: Seems incomplete.

Author: I believe this is fixed now. Also simplified.

### Concerning Amortization Approaches

> The amortization of the upfront charge should be amortized using a methodology determined by the provider that reflects the needs of their customer base and is proportional with usage quantity and the time granularity of the line item.  Should a practitioner desire to amortize upfront fees using a different approach.

Reviewer 5: Should a practitioner desire to amortize upfront fees using a different approach. <-- Is this line needed? Or can it be clarified?

Author: I just pushed an update to clarify. We got lots of feedback for scenarios where a practitioner's organization uses a different approach to amortization. We landed on the service provider is already providing amortization logic in their billing data today. They should continue to do so but it should be known that using other columns a practitioner could implement their chosen amortization approach if need but would be outside of the spec.

Author: How does that look @MichaelArkoosh-vega?

Reviewer 5: @rileyjenk  Thank you for clarifying that - I think it looks good.

> The amortization of the upfront charge should be amortized using a methodology determined by the provider that reflects the needs of their customer base and is proportional with usage quantity and the time granularity of the line item.  Should a practitioner desire to amortize upfront fees using a different approach, the practioner can do so using the BilledCost for the line item representing the initial purchase.

Reviewer 3: While I can get what this is saying based on our conversations, I suspect it will get interpreted differently due to a lack of specificity. I think this is okay for 0.5, but we should probalby add an issue to track making this more specific and prescriptive for 1.0. Thoughts?

Author: Yeah totally agree @flanakin I would like to be able to link to specific documentation from the providers on their amortization approaches.
